Okay.
So we left off the previous lesson on a bit of a cliffhanger.
We have a failing test where we are expecting an array with a length of 15 and instead the test is finding
an array with an actual length of zero.
So it's almost like Vue or our test suite isn't registering the return value of this Axios get call.
We simulated this API request.
We simulated the response of an array of 15 objects, but it's almost like it's not registering with
the component.
The component is not updating, and if it doesn't have an array to update, obviously it still thinks
it has an array of zero.
And that's coming from the initial value of the jobs data property.
And because it has an empty array, the V4 right here is iterating over an array of zero.
It's not rendering any job listing components with a data test attribute, and that's why we're getting
that mismatch.
All right.
So what is going on here?
Well, to be honest, at this point, I was actually confused.
So I decided to search through the view documentation.
So let me take you exactly to the page that I located.
And it was right here.
I basically search for asynchronous behavior.
You can see Vue test utils in depth.
There was a section that specifically deals with asynchronous behavior and we can read this together.
You'll notice you may recall we used a function earlier on in the course called Next HIC and that was
designed to update the view component to proceed at one tick forward.
I think we used this in our headline component whenever we needed to simulate the passage of time from
the set interval function running one cycle so we could see the change in our headline.
Well, it's a very similar idea.
It's almost like our view component is not proceeding forward to the moment where our fake request is
resolving that promise and giving that array of 15 items back to the component to work with.
So let's read this together.
Next tick is useful to ensure some change in reactive data is reflected in the DOM before continuing
the test.
And that's promising.
That may sound like something we're interested in.
However, sometimes you may want to ensure other non view related asynchronous behavior is completed
too.
So our request to an API is technically outside of the scope of the view component.
The view component takes that response and then overwrites its internal data which renders it.
And if our components data was out of date, that might be the problem.
If we wanted to re render it, that might be a situation where we would use next take.
But this is something different.
This is the view test utils not understanding that we have this promise floating around that is not
resolving.
So right here it says a common example is a function that returns a promise.
Perhaps you mocked your axios htp client using just mock.
So the syntax that you see here is actually exactly the same as we have in our test suite.
It's just a little bit more of a different syntax.
So right here you'll notice they're mocking out the Axios library, as we did.
And this secondary argument is just an alternate way to do what we did with that Axios dot, get that
mock resolved value method.
They're doing the same thing.
They're saying when we call Axios dot, get beat B, make that a function that returns a promise that
resolves to an object with a data property.
We're doing the exact same thing when we use mock resolved value.
That is just syntactic sugar for what this is doing right here.
So as it says in this case, Vue has no knowledge of the unresolved promise.
It has no clue that this thing is going on separately.
So calling next tech will not work.
Your assertion may run before the promise resolves.
So in other words, the component is operating and it's it's going through your test, it's running
that assertion.
But this fake asynchronous thing that we have set up to run has not resolved yet.
Now, granted, it's not a real asynchronous thing.
We're just faking it out.
But things run so instantaneously in this test suite that basically the test finishes up before the
promise resolves.
And when if the promise hasn't resolved yet, the test still sees a data array of zero elements and
that's the test sales.
So for scenarios like this view test utils exposes flush promises which causes all outstanding promises
to resolve immediately.
So that's what we want.
We want to tell our test.
We complete all the promises, or in other words, pretend as if all of those asynchronous operations
have completed.
Even those that aren't specifically related to updates to the component and its reactivity in its template.
If there's any kind of asynchronous operation that's running in the background, even a fake one like
we have, go ahead and finish it up.
That's what the flush promises function does, causes all outstanding promises to resolve immediately.
Outstanding in this scenario means still running, still working.
It causes all still working promises to resolve immediately.
So you can see right here they invoke the flush promises function which they import directly from view
test utils and then when they do this await it simulates as if the Axios promise is resolved immediately.
It basically says that asynchronous operation is.
Done.
Let's try this approach in our test suite right here.
I'm going to import that flush promises function.
And I know this is confusing, by the way.
It still confuses me many times from time to time.
But the basic idea is we have something right here that's going to resolve all of our promises, and
we shoot off that promise after we shall amount our component, because it's going to run in this mountain
hook right here.
So I need to await.
The Flush promises invocation, which is going to resolve all those promises.
And if I'm using that await syntax right here, I have to make my just function right here asynchronous
because this will take some amount of time and also force blocking.
So in other words, I want the test to block right here, finish up all the promises, finish up all
of the async behavior, and then once all that's done, then the components should be updated.
And then I can actually ask my test to find that data test attribute array.
And at that point, now that we resolve their promises, now that the component has updated, we should
have 15 job listings because we should have a jobs array of 15 elements.
So if I save this.
We now have everything passing with no warnings.
All right.
So the takeaway from this lesson is whenever you have some kind of mock or even really any kind of asynchronous
operation in your code, and you notice that it is not directly related to the components, asynchronous
things like rendering the time, but maybe something totally separate, such as making an API requester,
such as making a database call when it's outside the scope of a component directly.
But it's doing some kind of action that takes some time.
If you're noticing in your tests that things do not appear to be working out, it could be that the
tests don't realize that that operation is not yet completed.
And in that scenario, you can invoke the flush promise function to flush your promises.
Flush.
Unfortunately, the best analogy I can think of is a bathroom.
Flush them out means throw them out.
Finish them up.
Right.
That's what it's going to do to all the promises that are still pending, that are waiting to be resolved
in our test, that's going to flush them out.
It's going to finish them up.
So only when that completes can we then assert that the component has everything that we need.
All right.
So with that, we have tested the two responsibilities of job listings that it makes the right request
and that it renders a job listing for everything and gets from that request.
So with that, I think we are good to wrap up this section.